And welcome back.
Let's get to some exciting coding using what now.
Remember creed re-act app uses web pack underneath the hood.
So let's see what kind of setup they have by trying to build one ourselves or at least the simplified
version of it.
So first thing we want to do is let's just make a simple project we'll just make directory we'll call
it what
project and all Cdn to that as well.
Now the very first thing we want to do is set up NPM so I can do NPM in it with Dash Y which means just
say yes to all the configurations.
All right.
And we have everything set up plus clear this.
And now let's just open up the project to make sure that we have all the files we need to.
I use subline but you can obviously use whatever text editor you choose.
And let's make the screens nice.
Like this together so we can see everything.
Nice.
Perfect.
All right so we have our web pack project with our package dot Gees on file.
Not much in it for now but this is a good start.
Now the whole served single page application that we're going to build is going to contain two files
an HMO file and a javascript file while the javascript file is going to be generated automatically from
all the other files that we have through ratpack.
Later on we can starting create the XML file manually as an entry point for our application so we can
simply just make another directory here we'll call it build or let's say two disks for distribution
and all CD into that distribution and we'll just create an index dot a shim file perfect.
If we check over here we have our index not a shemale.
Well let's go back.
To our route of the project here in the index start a similar fall.
We can just simply create a simple basic template.
I can actually and sublime tax do this and then if I hit tab at all are popular for me which is a nice
little feature will give the title of what pack and within the body because we are going to be using
re-act and we need some sort of an entry point for react.
We can just have a div with an idea of let's say app and we can close that div and we can also have
a script file and the script file is going to load our bundled Yes which we don't have yet but we're
going to make.
So we'll just say that the source for this script file will be in the bundle dodginess.
All right there are nice and simple app.
We're going to have an entry point for react and we're also going to have all our javascript files in
one called bundle thought.
Now you'll use wetback as a module bonder and a build tool.
More of what you're going to use something called web packet dev server to serve this bundled up they
you have in a local environment so that we can run a command here and we can test out a rap on our laptop.
Otherwise you wouldn't be able to actually see it in the browser.
And then finally we also need the wetbacks see a lie or command line interface to configure our wetbacks
setup.
So let's install these three packages so we can actually start using back.
We can do NPM not there.
We can do NPM install and because these are for development purposes we can just say dash dash save
Dev and within here we're going to install what Pak the web pack death server so we can actually test
out our project locally.
And then finally the web pack
CLIA let's install this.
And while this is installing I want to warn you with this video if you're not used to wet back you're
going to feel a little what's the word here.
A little exhausted from all the packages we're going to install all the set up.
It is honestly overwhelming when you first start.
And this is exactly why create react up exists because setting this up and configuring everything and
making sure everything is up to date is a big big task.
So watch this video not as a you have to know everything and if you don't understand everything then
you can move on.
Watch it as a way to understand a little bit of what's going on underneath the hood of create react.
But as I said before keep in mind that configurations always change so when the time comes for you to
implement one back they have great documentation online that he can use.
But for now just understand the why of what.
Not every single detail as I always love to say.
All right now that we have this installed Let's clear this.
And the first thing we want to do is go into our packaged Jaisalmer file and within the scripts year
we're going to change the test to start.
And we're going to say that.
Let me make this smaller so we can see.
We want to remove this dummy text that they have and we're going to put in here.
Pac dev server dash dash config space and a file that we don't have yet that we're going to build.
It's going to be called web pack Daut config dot.
J.S. and then dash dash mode development homeboy.
Let me make this a little bit smaller.
All right.
That was a lot let me explain what's going on here.
The script over here defines that you want to use wet pack def server with a configuration file called
well-packed config dodginess which we're going to create and the dash dash mode devolvement is actually
a new feature that came with went back four which was recently released.
And this just adds the default to web pack configurations which come with the new get back before we
actually with one two and three version of back.
We now have this and you had to do even more manual setup.
Luckily with version 4 they've realized that people don't want to necessarily do everything by hand
so they have some nice date defaults so they have one for production as well which is very very helpful.
All right so now that we have this set up let's save this.
And within our terminal I'm going to create this configuration file.
So it's we're going to say touch wet pack dot config dodginess and we see over here that we have what
backdoor config dodgiest and I have a nice little plug in.
That gives me a symbol here.
Very cool.
All right now let's go to this file because we can really do anything yet.
We're going to go to the file and we're going to add the web pack configuration.
And this is where most of the well-packed magic happens.
We're here the first thing we want to do is say module datt exports.
And then there's three main things we want to add to the exports.
One is the entry which is where do we want wetback to start looking through our faith.
In our case this entry is going to be a index js file that we're going to create.
So let's say in the source folder it's going to be the index dot J.S. file and then the second thing
we're going to say that the output which is from the entry server reading all the files and bundling
everything out and all of your output put it into this location and we can do that simply by defining
an output with a path dher which is the directory name that we currently have.
And use our d'Este or distribution folder.
Right over here and then we're also going to have a public
and this public Plath is just going to be like this because this is just the your rel to the output
directory resolved relative to the age to him.
I'll page again and read up more about these on their documentation page.
And then finally we want the output to be the bundle file.
So we want to say that file name is going to be Bondel God yes.
Awesome.
And the last thing is going to be something called the dev server.
So this is while we want to run while we're working on our Web site locally and the def server will
have a content base with the distribution folder.
So this tells us server where to serve the content from.
So from the distribution folder when we're working in our local environment.
All right.
There was though was a lot but overall the big picture is that there's an entry there is an output and
we also tell the def server where to look so that it displays the Web site for us when we're working
on it.
So again we're just saying we want to use the source index digest file as the entry point to bundle
all of this important files.
We need the Bondel died yes so we're going to go through everything index yes.
Anything that's imported through there.
We're going to compile and spit it out into a bundled budget.
Yes.
And then we're going to generate are already set up this folder as the serving point with the index
not a shemale file for our app.
So we're missing the source folder here so let's do that.
I'm going to make your source so we have a news source folder and within here we can just go into the
source folder and create the index file that we have in our wet pack config.
Let's go back.
And just for fun in the index Jasc let's just say console dog log and I will say what pack Wizards.
Very exciting stuff.
All right.
Let's run NPM start and see what happens.
I'm going to say NPM start because if you remember going to Pakistan on file we have this web pack DEP
server command that we're going to run.
So I'm going to say NPM start.
All right so we get some output here but at the bottom you'll see that we have compiled successfully.
And if we scroll up we see that the project is running a shitty local localhost.
So let's do that.
Let's go to local hosts over here.
And do 80.
All right.
And we have what PAC wizard in the console which is working there's nothing displayed on the page because
well our e-mail page doesn't really have anything we want we can just have a H-1 tag that says Web pack
here just to make sure that it's working.
And if we refresh.
There you go.
We have what back with wet pack wizard working.
Very cool.
So again we see that the content is being Sam from the dist folder and that our time of building was
so bundling everything.
Took 337 milli seconds and that we have a Bondel DOD J.S. file that we created that is quite small with
just 300 kilobytes very very cool.
All right.
Now let's get a little bit more deep into the topic here.
We also need something called Bible Bible enables us to write our code in six or seven or eight.
And with Bible the code is going to get transpired or changed back to yes five so that every single
browser without having all the 6 features already implemented on them can still interpret it.
So we're writing as developers in year 6 putting it through baseball.
It's going to spit out the exact same code but with E.S. 5 version so that all the browsers no matter
how old they are can still implement it so we can still use cool things like Aero functions and object
destructuring and other cool things that we can also test out new upcoming features of javascript that
haven't even been implemented yet.
So let's start off with that.
Let's set up a baseball into our Roopak project.
I'm going to close this and clear and I'm going to say NPM install again we'll just say save def because
we're only doing this on the deaf side when we actually put it out into the public.
We don't need a table because we're doing this before putting the files onto a server.
So let's just say here we're going to need something called Whoops babble core which is the main cable
package.
We need something called Babel Lowder and Lowder is something that is used in Westpac.
It compiles code.
So Babel loader in wet pack works Sutekh javascript and take it through the Babel compiler and then
we need something call table preset and.
And this is the cool package that what it does is it checks whatever browser we're running in and based
on that browsers version and how old it is it will know exactly which features they they haven't implemented
yet in the browser and make those changes to S-5 for the browser.
So it's smart enough to detect the browser and only change to a piece of the code that the browser doesn't
understand.
All right very cool so let's install that.
All right.
Awesome so we have babbel installed.
But additionally we might want to use some more experimental features of javascript which can get activated
via something called stages.
So what does that mean.
Well if we go to the Babel Web site and let's close this for now we see that we have different preset
stages and these are things in javascript that are proposed that might or might not get implemented.
But if you're really really eager you can start using them by using preset stage.
And again because babbel transport is are code that means we can write whatever we want and as long
US babble understands it it's going to spit out the version in S-5 for us so that all browsers understand
it.
So for fun right now let's say that we also want to test out a new feature of javascript so we'll say
NPM install and.
And we're going to download a package that is Babel preset say stage to so we can install that.
So now that we have all these packages How can we use them.
Well we go into packaged Jaison and then here we can add a cable property and in here we can just say
that and make sure we add the comma
the pre-sets which is why we just downloaded we'll have three of them.
So let's go back here.
Should be an array.
And within here we'll say that we have the preset.
We're also going to use the stage to preset you know what.
Let's add one more.
Again if we want to use react in our application we also want a the re-act preset.
So again in here we can just NPM install and instead of precess stage to whatever we just Scott will
say that will get preset react.
So there is a ton of these that you can use.
And now we'll have this one available to us as well.
This last one is for us to be able to transform GSX files which sometimes comes naturally with react
to Jeff's files so it's more for a sake of convenience than anything.
Let me clear this and yes we can reload it.
Oh and I forgot to save it so let's go back here.
I'm going to copy this.
And again we'll just put it down here.
Our baseball setup and make sure we save it this time.
All right so now we can go back to our Web page config and we can tell well-packed to hey also use baseball
when going with the entry.
And before you put everything put it through baseball and Jaspal everything that's very easy to do.
We can add a module here to tell it to what to do with our modules.
And within here we just have to mention a few things.
So the first one is rules.
So what rules do we need to follow.
So the rules are going to be to test.
So that is to look for files.
And we're going to use some rejects expression here that are javascript
or use brackets here that are javascript or GSX files.
So those are default re-act false.
And by the way you can look at the syntax this is regex and you can learn about the syntax but we're
pretty much saying anything that matches dodgiest or dot GSX So pretty much all javascript.
We wanted to use the Babel loader on it.
So run it through Babel.
Now we obviously don't want to do this with our no modules so you can see our known modules folders.
There's a ton but those are entire files those are third parties and we're not interested in them so
I can just say exclude and we'll exclude the known modules.
All right.
Perfect.
And then the other thing I want to also do is I want to use resolve and this is something that you may
have noticed when we were working with create re-act up when we entered a file a component file.
We never put the dodgy Yes at the end because create react automatically knew that that was Javascript.
So this is done using something called resolve.
And we can just say that with resolve.
We want the extensions
J us and GSX to be left off and just assume that it's going to be a javascript or just X Files.
So we never have to do dodgiest when importing at the top of the file which is nice and nifty.
All right so let's save that and.
All right.
We're not done yet because let's say this is a reactor app we need a couple packages for react.
But these ones we already know we can just do NPM install and this time the swans are going to be saved
not for DAPH but their actual dependencies of the project.
So we don't need to do dash dash save dev we can just say we want to install react and react dong.
And I can't spell Let's try that again.
React.
All right.
Awesome.
We have a reaction.
Stahl That's great.
We're getting closer and closer to how create react up works underneath the hood.
That's good.
So now we use react and all that GSX goodness into our files.
But another thing you might remember is that we're able to use something called Yes lint or every time
we rank we react at any anytime we had a syntax error or anything like that.
It displayed it in our terminal which was very very helpful.
And they use something called E.S. lint which is lending that is checking your syntax making sure everything
checks out.
Think of it as a spell checker.
And it allows you to maintain a consistent javascript and reac code Sol in your project and pretty much
any company you work out uses some sort of Lanting so to do this let me clear this first again as you
can imagine we're installing Muhl.
Morse.
Again it's a bit of a headache.
I know because this is for development purposes only.
Will say save def and we're going to install the Slint package.
And while this is loading you might have realized for now because we're using web pack we need something
called loader that is to have all the files go through this.
They go through babbel to get them transported to iOS 5.
So it's compatible with all browsers.
But we also wanted to go through as Slint to check for any mistakes.
So again we need something called Yes lint loader.
All right.
And now we can use this in our config to make sure that it goes through the Slint.
Let's do that by adding another rule here.
And actually I made a mistake here this should be an object because well we can have multiple rules
so let's put that there.
And the next Swan And we'll say that here we're going to do the same thing.
We're going to copy these properties except this time we want to use the Slint loader again through
our javascript files.
So let's start our application and see if this is working.
I kind of went along without checking my work so we'll see if I made any errors here.
I'm going to run NPM start
and I got a bit of an error here.
If we scroll up you'll see that I made a silly little mistake here.
I need a comma after the death server.
Let's say that and start that again
and we have another.
I am full of mistakes today.
There you go.
Another comma that I've missed.
All right.
So it's compiling now.
But it says fail to compile.
All right.
And I want to show you something that's quite tricky with pack and why so many people get frustrated
with it.
So I purposely made a few mistakes in here that if you look through here well it's not really clear
what's going on.
I mean I see that I have no yes land configuration but there's also all this other stuff happening here
and it just says module not found.
And again this is one of those things where you really want to make sure that the syntax you use in
wet pack and thig is really really correct.
That's why looking at their documentation and checking out their example is really really important.
For example here we actually need for the resolve in the extensions to have a dot in the front and then
with the tests with the rejects.
Well we actually don't need the dots because we have this front as well.
Let me save that and let's try this again.
All right I still get some errors but if I scroll up I don't have all those modulars and it looks like
I get a 1 error of no Eastland configuration found.
That's pretty standard Yes Linta needs some sort of configuration some sort of rules that we can tell
it hey check for these types of errors.
Again another configuration file.
I told you this can get pretty hairy but it's just the way it works.
So with each slant is very simple we can just create something called a r c file so we can say touch.
Yes lint.
R C and this done over here is makes it a dot file and the R C means that when the project starts up
it's going to read the Slint R C and set up each Slint so that whatever rules in there it's going to
instantiate.
Now I could do the same thing with baseball as well instead of putting it in package.
Jason as I have it here I could have just taken all of this and created a dot dot are Sharifah.
But for now we can leave it there for you.
Slint though.
Let's create a new slim file.
And within here to start off we don't need anything crazy we're going to leave it blank and just keep
the default syntax of defining rules like this.
But keeping the object empty is going to save.
And let's start this again.
Rahu everything seems to have loaded and it all looks good.
Again we have our local host 1881 that is distributing our up.
So let's go check it out.
All right everything looks nice.
Ignore the 4 or 4.
This is just Falvey con that we don't need to worry about but what pack is working.
And if we go to the network and refresh we see that we get the bundle dodgiest file that has all this
extra thing that wet pack comes with in order to work the way it does.
Within here we have our console log that tells us to print what pack wizard.
Very cool.
All right.
Are you getting a headache from all of this yet.
Because we have one more thing to add.
You see you have to use something called Babel.
Yes lint in your configuration.
So that are limiting.
Also includes iOS 6 and 7 and iOS 8.
So once again we've done this before.
We're going to clear here and just do NPM install and again save Dev and this time around we're going
to do both yes let.
And again I can't spell a that again baseball with now.
And again here now that I've downloaded this I can use another property called parser and this parser
will have a table E.S. lint.
Right let's save this and make sure it still works.
NPM strt
as well for that law come over here let's try that again.
And everything is working but now we have Bible Slint working as well.
Let's try something fun let's say that I want the rule no con. to have a warning
let's say that and I'm going to run NPM start again.
Check that out.
We have a warning because the rule says that we don't want any console statements in our javascript
file.
So if I go to index suggests we have a console lock statement which sometimes in production you don't
really want maybe you don't want to log out whatever errors you have to the user.
And now I've added this rule that says give me a warning if there's a console.
Very cool can also do error.
And if I do air and start it all over again I get an error for using a console lock statement.
Very cool.
Similar functionality to what we had and create react up but now we also have this ability to lend new
yes six features now adding rules by yourself line by line is tedious and as developers we don't want
to do things that has already been done before.
Luckily for us you don't have to specify your own set of rules every time.
There's plenty of recommendations out there and you actually already used on for re-act using create
react to a really good one that I like is the Airbnb style guide being be open sourced.
It's Eastlink configuration and it's quite popular a lot of projects use it a lot of big projects to
use it.
We can actually just install it.
So again going back to our console since we're downloading everything we can do and PM install dash
dash save Dev and we want to install.
Let's say the yes lent config BMB
and let's say we want a few more features perhaps we want to make sure that with yes Slint the import
statements and export statements work.
In that case we would downlow plug in import and let's say we also want to make sure that we have Lentini
to make sure that the code has accessibility in mind that is it's geared towards people who have screen
readers viewing web pages so it's accessible to everybody and we can use a plug in there that is yes
Slint plug in GSX
ally and so on.
And so for all right typing with a mike in front of you is not the best idea.
We made another type error here and let's fix that now now you see over here it's a lot of plug ins
and configuration.
And luckily for us there is a lot of tools out there and a lot of documentation on how to do this best
practices.
But again this is what's happening underneath the hood with create Briac tap all these smart developers
are working for you to set this up in the best way possible for you.
All right so now that we have this let's just add the air MBBS Len Twan just for now.
I know we installed a few more things but for now just the FBM view on we can't just simply say extends
and extends whatever rules we have with an array of whatever.
Yes liberals We've downloaded in our case it is the Airbnb based rules.
Again this is something that you can read up on when you download the package you go to there get Hobb
and check out the Eastlink vague airbed BMB.
I saved this run.
NPM start
and you see that because we've extended our rules we have a few more hours.
We have the unexpected console's statement which we've added but also we have a missing semicolon air
and a new line required at the end of file.
Let's go back to our index.
Jesus had a semi-colon and a new line at the end of the file save it and look at that automatically
it updates to just one error which we created which is the console lock statement but everything is
working.
Ignore some of this stuff.
If I refresh we get everything but we get that error of the console lock statement that we said before.
All right.
Let's go back to our Web pack config.
What have we learned here.
Well we learned that web back is pretty pretty complicated.
Luckily they have really good documentation online that you can read up on.
But the main principles stand.
All we're doing is we're creating a butler that takes all our files in our case index.
Yes if indexed RJ has had import statements that lead to another file and that file had endorsed him
and saw lead to another file.
Well it would read through all of those through the entry that we gave it it would then run through
those modules and test out if any of them end up in J.S. or GSX extension.
We're going to run them through Babel and then we're also going to link them as well.
And finally we're going to put that to a distribution folder and for the VOLP or purposes we can also
have a server running like we had here and it constantly checks to make sure that our Web site is lint
free.
I think that's enough wetback for now.
We all need a break after this one.
Hope you had fun.
I think this is probably the toughest part of the course to really get.
I personally thing that configuration like this in the future will be less and less important as the
community moves towards less and less configuration because as you can see it's a lot of headache and
you are really coding you're just following the documentation of a library which personally I'm not
the biggest fan of but it's up to you.
It's still a useful tool.
My recommendation used create re-act app if you ever ever need to customize your right back.
You can run NPM run eject and create re-act up and they'll give you access to this web pack config file.
For now I need a break and so do you see in the next one Buh-Bye.